begin with breaking news the United
States says it submitted a draft
resolution to the UN Security Council
calling for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
says the resolution is linked to the
release of captives and that he hopes
countries will support the move the US
has previously vetoed attempts to
achieve a ceasefire at the United
Nations let's get more with our
diplomatic editor James space who joins
us on the line so James what more are
you hearing about this us resolution
well these comments have come from
Secretary of State blinkin in the last
half hour and clearly sound very
important indeed uh what we need to know
is exact the exact language of the UN
Security Council resolution to which
he's referring and I can tell you that
Al jazer has obtained a copy of the
latest we thought it was the latest us
uh Security Council draft just a few
hours ago and this is I think where the
language is important because he's
talking when he spoke to reporters a
short time ago about immate ceasefire
the resolution the copy we've seen does
use the words immediate and sustain
sustain Ceasar but this is where it gets
complicated and this is important the
language have says the security Council
determines the imperative of an
immediate and sustained ceasefire to
protect civilians all sides now
determines determines the imperative
means that an immediate and sustained
ceasefire the security Council believes
is important what other members of the
security Council want is the immediate
demand for one to take place and it's
not clear in this resolution that that's
actually what the US is demanding and I
have to be honest with you it's not
clear whether this copy of the
resolution that Al jazer obtained just a
couple of hours ago is the copy that
secretary of state blinkin is talking
about uh it may well be this is a fluid
document it's being updated all the time
that the language has been changed it is
certainly the strongest draft that I
have seen with regard to the situation
in Gaza demanding immediate aid uh go
into uh Gaza uh talking about
International humanitarian law being
compliant with it is a lengthy document
this is something the US has been
working on a draft resolution for some
weeks now and it's been constantly
evolving certainly the strongest
language yet but is it quite what the
rest of the security Council want a
demand for an immediate Cesar or is it
just a resolution where the security
Council would say an immediate cesa is
something that's very important um and
he may then of course be able to refer
to the ongoing talks that are taking
place uh in Doha to try and get a six
week ceasefire as you say James strong
language uh in this uh draft resolution
that the US is putting forward and this
is of course a significant uh change it
would appear given the US's uh previous
vetos uh at the security Council on
Gaza yes we have for three times we've
had uh the US representative in the
security Council sort raise their arm in
veto against the rest of the security
Council only the UK has been on two of
those resolutions not supporting the
resolution in exstension um but the US
is the only one that with veto Powers
blocked those resolutions the security
Council would have called for an
immediate Ceasar at the end of last year
if it hadn't been uh for the United
States and I know from diplomats uh in
New York and elsewhere that there's been
um considerable concern about this among
the security Council but also I think
among the US diplomatic Community uh
diplomats senior diplomats have told me
they believe that the US ambassador
herself Linda Thomas Greenfield has been
uneasy about the US position and has
been advocating for the US to take a
stronger position given uh the scale of
the deaths caused by Israel's
bombardment James thank you very much
for the moment that's James Bas our
diplomatic editor on the line there
we'll have have more on this breaking
news story throughout the day here of
course the US reportedly submitting a
new draft resolution at the security
Council calling for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza